 listening. directions. in this test, you will listen to conversations and talks in English. there are two parts in this section. the recording will be played once only. part 1. questions 1 to 8. directions. in this part, you will hear a short announcement or instructions. there is one question for each announcement or instruction. for each question, choose the right answer A, B, C or D. we are ready to start. first, you have some time to look at questions 1 to 8. questions 1 to 8. question 1. which job does the woman do now? all the time I was at school, I wanted to be a nurse. but my mother worked in a shop and said it wasn't good to be on your feet all day. she wanted me to be a secretary. I did that for a while after I left college, but I wasn't very keen on it. so I retrained and now I'm doing what I always wanted to. question 2. where will they meet? hi, Pipertzangie. I'll see you outside the cafe tonight at 7.30. I'll but I don't know where it is. it's easy to find. it's opposite that new supermarket that's just opened. I'm not sure where that is either. I'll wait for you by the bus station. then we can go to the cafe together. I'll know where the new supermarket is then too. question 3. what was the boy doing when the phone rang? what did you do yesterday evening? well I was supposed to look after my four-year-old cousin while my aunt went to the theatre. but I wanted to watch the match on television so she found someone else. the annoying thing was that the phone rang halfway through and I missed the best goal. I'd finished on my homework early too. question 4. which date is Brian's birthday? John, did you know it's Brian's birthday next week? it's 20th. it's on the 15th. that's Wednesday isn't it? if you're having a party? yes, on the 17th at about 8th. oh next Friday. hope I get asked. question 5. where is the man? hello Mary. the train arrived much earlier than I expected. I'm on the platform at the moment. shall I get a taxi? there shouldn't be a long queue at this time of day? yeah okay. I'll go and have a drink in the cafe while I wait for you. question 6. which is the boy's teacher? I've just started learning the piano. I've got a really nice teacher. he's called Mr. Hall. oh I know. he taught me when I was quite young. he's got a beard and lots of black hair hasn't he? I used to be quite frightened of him. well, the Mr. Hall who teaches me hasn't got much hair and it's grey. but he does have a beard and wears glasses. but it is the same man I'm sure. I was only little when he was teaching me. question 7. what did the man receive in the post? was there any post for me this morning? yes there was. two letters and a postcard. here you are. one of the letters is for you. I'm expecting a parcel. did it come? oh yes. I put it over there. look. question 8. what time is the flight from New York expected? excuse me. I'm waiting for flight 712 from New York. it was supposed to arrive at 920. it's 935 now and there's been no announcement of a delay or anything. I'm sorry madam. we've just had a message to say it took off an hour and a half late. a rival time is now 1055. oh that's too bad. I've been here since half past 8 and it probably won't arrive when you say. I expect I'll be here till midday. that's a whole morning wasted. I can only apologize madam. that is the end of part 1. part 2. questions 9 to 20. in this part you will hear three conversations. there are four questions for each conversation. for each question choose the correct answer A, B, C or D. you will hear the conversations only once. questions 9 to 12. you will hear the radio interview about theme parks. you good morning. today we're going to talk about theme parks. and we're going to hear from Andy Wells, who has written a guide to theme parks around the world. welcome to the program Andy. hi it's good to be here. you really have a dream job don't you Andy. flying around the world all the time. visiting adventure parks. well yes it's pretty exciting. but it's really hard work too you know. I bet. so what's the number one theme park in the world? that all depends what you're looking for. in terms of numbers it has to be magic kingdom, a Disney world in Florida. the most famous theme park. but the most popular park for people who like adventure rides is cedar point in Ohio, USA. it has the biggest number of roller coasters in one park. 17. and three water rides. there are lots of other attractions too. last year they introduced 50 animatronic dinosaurs. you know, life-size models that move and look real. cool. have they got anything lined up for this year? yeah there's a new roller coaster called the gatekeeper. well actually it's not a roller coaster. it's a wing coaster. it'll be the biggest in the world. what's a wing coaster? with a normal roller coaster you are sitting on a seat with the track under you. with a wing coaster, the seats kind of stick out at the side. so the passengers have nothing below or above them. you feel as if you're flying. so it's more frightening? more exciting way more exciting. what other attractions have you seen recently? um I've just been to the Wizarding World of Harry Potter at the islands of adventure in Orlando, Florida. it's great. you know those shops that sell magic sweets and things in the Harry Potter books? well they have those just like you've imagined. there's a fantastic tour of Hogwarts school where you meet characters from the books. it's so well done. right sounds interesting. in your book you have a lot of theme parks in Asia too. can you tell us about them? Tokyo has had a Disneyland for quite a long time, which attracts a lot of people. Ocean Park in Hong Kong has also been going for a long time. that has a lot of marine animals as well as rides. Lottie World, a huge park in South Korea, has the world's biggest indoor theme park. and then there's Universal Studios in Singapore. that's expanding with additions to its New York street section. there's going to be a Sesame Street dark ride. a dark ride is a ride inside a building. I see. New York in Singapore? yeah it's weird but it works. but the place to watch at the moment is China. they're really expanding. lots more parks will open in China in the next few years, including another one with dinosaurs in the north. and Ocean Kingdom in the south. that will have the world's longest roller coaster and tallest Ferris wheel. as well as boat rides and a nighttime zoo. wow. so that's out mixing. yes this year. I'll be there. have a ride for me then. questions 13 to 16. you'll hear a journalist interviewing Jeff Thompson, a British sportsman. good evening Jeff. hi. perhaps you could tell me a bit about your background. where are you from exactly? well I was actually born in 1958 up in the north of England. my parents came to live in Britain after the war. sounds great. we moved south to London after that. we were completely broke and I did all sorts of odd jobs to try and make money. goodness how dramatic. but I was lucky. I just covered karate. ah how exactly? there was a school trip. nothing special really. but we went to this sports centre. and I just thought that's for me. just like that. anyway I started training. I found myself a Japanese coach and things just happened. I found it came naturally to me. and I worked my way up till I found myself in the world championships. that was in 1982. and you won? yeah. suddenly I was world heavyweight champion. it was great. and you were world champion at that weight. five times in all. yep that's right. and then you retired. well I didn't have much choice. and now you've got other projects on the go all around the country and even abroad. we're going from strength to strength. question 17 to 20. you will hear a conversation between a girl, tenor and a boy, Marik, about their holiday plans. you're looking forward to your holiday. oh Tania I can't wait. where is it you're going? is it camping on an island somewhere? or am I thinking of someone else? well we were going camping. but my dad's just bought a camper van. so we're going in that instead. it means you can go to other countries without having to get a flight. which is good in a way. but actually I always used to enjoy sleeping in a tent. yeah I know what you mean. but it must be nice getting to see all the scenery along the way. I have to say the flight is my least favorite part of going abroad on holiday. oh I never mind it actually. and the airport can be quite fun sometimes. you must be very happy. you must be joking. all those people are nothing to do except look round expensive shops. I mean you always end up buying something you don't really want just because there's nothing else to do. well I don't. anyway where are you off to this year? Florida again. well I'm getting a bit old for Disney and Marik. though my little brother would still like it. we're actually going somewhere new. it's like a sports camp where you stay with lots of other kids and learn how to do different activities. you mean you're going without your parents? not exactly. I mean they're there too doing whatever they want. golf in my dad's case. but you only actually see them at mealtimes. sounds cool. but will you have to look after your little brother? no way. they divide you up according to age. he'll be doing football and swimming and all that. whereas I get to go water skiing. wow. doesn't that cost a fortune? well quite a bit. so I'm just doing it on one of the days. but there's wind surfing and water polo too. hmm I see. that is the end of part two.