 listening. directions. in this test, you will listen to conversations and talks in English. there are two parts in this section. the recording will be played once only. part 1. questions 1 to 8. directions. in this part, you will hear a short announcement or instructions. there is one question for each announcement or instruction. for each question, choose the right answer A, B, C or D. we are ready to start. first, you have some time to look at questions 1 to 8. question 1. how will Jill go to the football match? are you going to drive to the football match Jill? I was going to, but I think parking will be difficult. that's what I thought. I'm going to walk if you want to come with me. ok then, that's cheaper than the bus and it's always late anyway. question 2. how much is the girl's bus ticket? can I have a single ticket to the square please? here's two pounds. thank you. that's one pound seventy five pence. here's your change. but it's only one pound thirty five usually. sorry, all single tickets are more expensive now. question 3. what job does the boy want to do? have you got any idea about what job you'd like to do Sam? well, I did want to be a doctor, but my science marks aren't good enough for that. what about being a teacher? you really like children and you're very good at English. yes, but that's why I'd like to work for a newspaper. I enjoy writing. question 4. what does the man want to buy? do you think this sweater will look nice with my jacket? the color isn't quite right. what about that lovely blue shirt over there? it is nice, but I've got lots of shirts already. I need something warm to wear under my jacket. well, let's look in another shop then. question 5. where's the man's watch? I can't find my watch anywhere. did you take it off when you did the washing up last night? I've looked in the kitchen and it's not there. here it is. you left it on the bath before you went to bed. question 6. what time are the swimming lessons next week? are they at 10 o'clock as usual? sorry, there's a swimming competition from 9 o'clock and it won't finish until 11. will my lessons start after that? of course. all lessons will start as soon as the competition finishes. question 7. where do they decide to go? so we've got three hours free. shall we go to an exhibition? what do you think? well, there's an exhibition of photographs at the city museum. or there's a sculpture exhibition at the art gallery which is meant to be good. oh, sculpture's boring. let's go to the museum. I like photos and we haven't been there since last year when they had that really interesting exhibition of clothes. do you remember? ok, I can go and see the sculptures another day. question 8. what will the boy do first? I'm off now, mum. I'm going to meet Ben at the tennis club because he's bought some new handlebars for his bike and he wants me to help him put them on. and I've got to go to the library to take my books back sometime today too. well, do that before you start work on the bike because it isn't open this afternoon. ok, and we're going to play tennis after we've done the bike. so I won't see you until supper this evening. bye. that is the end of part 1 part 2. questions 9 to 20. in this part, you will hear three conversations. there are four questions for each conversation. for each question, choose the correct answer A, B, C or D. you will hear the conversations only once. questions 9 to 12. you will hear two neighbours, a woman, Natasha and a man, Colin, talking about running. I'm Natasha. see you're going out for a run. you're lucky you don't have to go to work today. Hello, Colin. I am going to the office but I've started running to work instead of taking the bus. it means I can keep fit and save some money. I tried running to work for a while but I didn't like breathing in all the traffic pollution and I kept getting coughs. I soon went back to using public transport. I keep fit at the gym. well, I found a route that avoids most of the main roads. but it's still almost 5 kilometres and it must be dangerous. that's why I choose quiet streets. I could, I'd run in the country. that would be lovely. but it would mean leaving it till the weekends. running gives me a wonderful feeling of freedom. it's just what I need before sitting down in the office every day. but surely you don't wear your tracksuit and trainers at work. I keep a suit at the office and change when I arrive. I think it's important to look professional so I don't mind at all. anyway, since you're so fit, you're going to join in the big race next month? I'd like to. what's the distance? 20 kilometres. anyone can enter and there are prizes for different age groups. hmm, even if I come last, it will still be good fun. running on your own can sometimes get quite lonely. are you going to take part? oh yes, I've sent in my application form already. I'll get one for you. but I'm not going to train by running to work. I'll run around the park a few times when I get home in the evenings. that's safer. okay. anyway, I must go now or I'll be late. bye. questions 13 to 16. you will hear a conversation between a girl, Charlotte and her father about what she's going to study next year. have you decided which languages you're going to do at college next year, Charlotte? well, as you know, I really want to study Spanish. hmm, a colleague of mine is studying Spanish. he speaks French and German too and he says he's found Spanish grammar the easiest to learn. well, that's not the reason I want to study it. Spanish is an important world language, you know. and I'd like to work in South America one day. I see. and what about the other language? you're going to do too, aren't you? have you thought about Russian? your grandmother would be delighted. I know she would. her parents were born in St Petersburg, weren't they? yes, but they came to England just before your grandmother was born. well, anyway, I don't think I'm going to do Russian. I think I'd like to do Chinese. really? I wanted to learn Chinese when I was younger, but sadly I didn't have time. it would be really useful now for my business to be able to speak it. oh, it's a fantastic language, isn't it? and the course sounds really good. I'll have the chance to spend six months actually studying the language in China. it seems a very long way away. I'll worry about you being thousands of kilometers from home. come on, dad. I really like the idea. there'll be so much to see and do, and I wouldn't be on my own. there'd be a whole group of students going out together, about 20 each year. oh, I see. but all the same. it's a long way. and perhaps you and mum could come out for a holiday while I was there. mum's always wanted to see the great wall of China. yes, she has. we'll have to talk about it when she gets in, won't we? great idea, dad. question 17 to 20 you will hear a conversation between a boy, John and a girl, Louise. John! Oh, Louise, hi. I've just arrived for my singing lesson with Mrs Thompson. What are you doing here? I've come for a singing lesson too. Well, if it's a secret, I won't tell anyone. It's okay, Louise. I'm going to be in a musical show. So everyone will know soon. Really? But can you actually sing then? Well, I was taught to sing at school, you know. But now I'm in the show, I thought I'd better have a few more lessons. Good idea. What do you think of Mrs Thompson? She's really strict, isn't she? She is. But I think if you want to sing properly, then she's the best teacher. You don't have to like her to see that she's really brilliant. Oh, I suppose so. It's just that she makes me feel so nervous. How did you get chosen for the show? I'm not sure. How did you get chosen for the show? Well, I went to see a few musical shows before Christmas. I don't know why, because I never really liked them before. And I thought, I'd like to do that. So I tried for a part in the show at the region theatre and got it. Well done. So have you actually done a show yet? Yes, we've done a practice show just for family and friends. So how did you feel? Well, when we'd finished, I wanted to cry because I was so delighted that I'd actually got through it without making any big mistakes. But did people like it? Yes, they did. And it was great to have an audience. I would love to be able to sing and have everybody listen and clap. It's quite hard to do a musical show, actually. You have to dance as well as sing. It's hard work to get it right. Oh, I wouldn't be keen on that. I'm only a singer, really. When does the show open? On the 9th of October. Would you like a couple of free tickets? Oh, yes. Thanks. You That is the end of part two.